(gentle music)
Alright, in this video, we are going to take a look
at setting up Spring MVC Internationalization
and we're going to be using Spring Boot to help us out.
And what I want to do is go through
and show you exactly how that accept header is working
with inside of HTTP.
So, I got a pretty cool example here for you.
I have Chrome running with the English US region,
that's to follow my operating system so Chrome's taking that
and then I also have Firefox running
with English Great Britain.
And I'm going to show you how these cascading messages
dot properties files will work
and how we can set that up for different defaults.
But first what we're going to do is
we'll get Spring Boot up and running
and we're going to go in and take a look at the developer tools
so we can see that request header.
So this is a header, if you remember
we looked at the HTTP request earlier in the course,
so there's a number of headers that get set
and the browsers do set a number of those automatically.
And I want to point out that this
is a behavior of all modern browsers
to be setting these headers.
Later in the course, when we get into doing RESTful APIs,
we're still going to be using HTTP as a protocol,
but it's going to be up to us to set
a lot of these request headers.
So when you're doing web development
and these request headers, it's important
to understand all the stuff that the browser's
telling our web server that it can and cannot accept.
So in this case we're looking at internationalization
and our browser's telling it
I want this language and this region.
And we're going to take a look at
that inside the developer tools.
And then we're going to take a look at setting up
Spring and Spring MVC, all the stuff that we get out of that
and how we can work with the messages properties.
And then at the end of this videos, we're going to
take a look into the coverage of the Spring Boot
autoconfiguration and exactly how that
is working for internationalization.
Okay, I want to go through a couple things here
within Spring Boot itself.
And I got a little demo set up here for you.
And what I've done is I've come in here
to our recipe form class and right here
on line 40, pull that down a little bit
so we can see a little bit better here
on line 40 you can see the th colon text
I've added in recipe description
so that hashtag recipe.description
is going to say to pull that out of the properties file
and in messages.properties I've set up
recipe.description and here you can see
that I've added in the default and I've added in
English for Great Britain and English for US
but both those are currently commented out,
I don't want to be using those yet.
But what I want to do is show you a little demonstration
of what's happening for when we're talking
about the accept headers.
So I'm going to come over here into Chrome
and show you what's happening here.
So if I come up here and do
View, Developer, Developer Tools.
Now I have the network tab up
and when I click on update,
I'm going to see the traffic that was created here
so let's take a look at that.
Get request on recipe 2, so that URL
and what we want to look at is here.
So this is what's going to across the wires
from the browser so it's important to keep this in mind
about how we're going to be resolving the locale.
So right now, inside of Chrome,
you can see my Accept-Language
as en-US and then en.
So these are the two preferences
and to be honest I'm not quite sure
what the q equals 0.8 is, I'm not going to lie to you,
I'm not quite sure what that is.
If you do please leave a comment on this video.
I'm kinda curious what that is now, that I'm looking at it.
But the main thing I want to
be looking at is the Accept-Language.
So en-US or en, so these are two different levels
that the browser is asking for.
And right now it's coming into default.
So you can see the default there,
and this is from right here.
So that is how that message is getting set,
out of the message.properties.
So it's going to the default because I haven't
technically set that in either one
of these descriptions here.
Now if I come over here to Firefox,
the developer edition of Firefox.
And come in Tools, Web Developer, Toggle Tools.
And now if I come in here to say, update,
now if I inspect this call, again we're asking
for the document there.
And now down here in the bottom,
you can see very similar, but what I've done
is I've gone in and reconfigured my Firefox instance
to as for Great Britain.
So it's asking for the en-GB version of English.
And then it'll fall back to just English.
So now if I come in to IntelliJ
and let's change this, actually
let me do something here on the fly.
Going to go ahead and add en.
So now I have just messages.en.
Let me copy that over.
And we'll add this in like so.
So if I do just en, make it lowercase.
Making that lowercase just to be consistent.
And now let's go ahead and restart Spring Boot,
so we make sure that takes effect.
And now if I come over here
and refresh this page.
You can see it's just en, so it's defaulting to that.
And if I come to Chrome and do the same thing.
We can see we get just en.
Now if I come back here to IntelliJ
and let's go into the US and we'll uncomment the US.
And go ahead and restart that.
And what's going to happen now is the US
will show the US values, so I'm doing description US.
So I come in here and do a refresh
and we can see that this is US here.
And if I come back over here to Firefox
which is set to Great Britain and do a refresh.
We still see just en.
So now if I come back here to IntelliJ
and let's go ahead and uncomment this guy for Great Britain.
Now we can see that Great Britain's going to change
as soon as we get this running.
So now we come up here and we can see that we have
the Great Britain locale selected.
Come back over here.
And I'll even refresh this one more time.
See how this is saying US, I can see how
these work in conjunction with each other.
So if I don't have the locale for a specific language code,
it's going to fall back to that.
Now if I were to configure one of my browsers
for Russian or Polish, or something like that,
it would fall back to just the messages.properties,
so it would go back to the default.
So if I don't have a given language code
or a language code locale, it's going to go back
to the default setting.
It's a really really versatile set of tools
that we have here, as far as handling multiple languages
and being able to find the strings for those
in our messages.properties.
Okay, there's a lot of disinformation about setting up
internationalization, especially
when it comes with Spring Boot.
Because Spring Boot is doing some
auto configuration for us
and I want to take a quick look at that too.
I'll come up here to WebMvc auto configuration
is the auto configuration class.
So I'm going to take a look at that.
And I'm going to go ahead and tell it to download sources here.
So we can see the annotated class, or comments I should say.
Now if I come in here and do a search on locale.
So here on line 239, what we have is a Conditional
OnMissingBean so if we're missing the bean,
a localeResolver and you'll see
a lot of examples out there, even when you search
on Spring Boot and internationalization
about setting up the localeResolver.
Now you do have some properties that you can set up
in the application.properties but the default
behavior here, you can see here,
if you set up a property for fixed.
So you have this option of doing a fix
and this is, again the fixed is going to be pulling
from the JVM. So if the JVM is set to a language code
so that's what the fixed property's going to do.
And this here's just an if statement,
so if you've overridden that, but if you do nothing at all,
automatically the AcceptHeaderLocaleResolver
is going to be configured and wired into your project
by Spring MVC.
So I wanted to clarify that because if you start
searching around on that, you're going to see a lot of examples
where they tell you, even with Spring Boot
that you have to define this bean.
But that is incorrect, you do get internationalization
out of the box with Spring Boot configured on your projects.
So, this has been in there for some time
and it's a lot of misnomers overheld
from back in the day when we didn't have the Spring Boot
and you did have to set this up manually,
when you're working with Spring MVC
but this does come out of the box
with Spring Boot in.
Again, this is what's going to be looking at that accept header
and specifically just to reiterate there.
If I come in here and look at the update request.
That interceptor is going to be looking at
the Accept-Language header, so that's
what's going to be swapping the message.properties for us.
So that's how that's configured,
so if you ever need to change that,
and again, looking at this configuration.
So, if you define one of the LocaleResolvers
we talked about in the previous video.
This is only going to be created if Spring Boot
does not already see a LocaleResolver.
So if you define one in your configuration,
this code does not kick in and does not create one for you.